refine aurora doc (#6144)
pingcap/docs: data-migration/quick_install_tools.md

---
title: Install TiDB data migration tools
summary: Learn how to install TiDB data migration tools, including Data Migration, Dumpling, and TiDB Lightning.
---

# Install TiDB data migration tools

This document describes how to install data migration tools.

## Prerequisites

- [Hardware and software requirements](/hardware-and-software-requirements.md)
- [Environment and system configuration check](/check-before-deployment.md)

## Install TiUP and components

Since TiDB 4.0, TiUP serves as the package manager to help you easily manage different cluster components in the TiDB ecosystem. Now you can manage any components with only one single TiUP command line.

1. Install TiUP

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://tiup-mirrors.pingcap.com/install.sh | sh
```

Redeclare the global environment variables:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
source ~/.bash_profile
```

2. Install Components

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup install dumpling tidb-lightning dm dmctl
```

> **Note:**
>
> To install a component of a specific version, you can use the `tiup install <component>[:version]` command.

> 3. Update TiUP and components

Reviewer: 强烈建议找一个模板工具完成自动填充内容，不然内容重复之后改起来太累了

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup update --self && tiup update dm
```

> ## Deploy DM cluster

Reviewer: deployment should be moved out of installation, or we should change the title 🤔

> According to the intended cluster topology, you need to manually create and edit the cluster initialization configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
According to the intended cluster topology, you need to manually create and edit the cluster topology configuration file.
```

You need to create a YAML configuration file (named topology.yaml for example) according to the configuration file template. For other scenarios, edit the configuration accordingly.

You can use the command `tiup dm template > topology.yaml` to generate a configuration file template quickly.

> The configuration of deploying three DM-masters, three DM-workers, and one monitoring component instance is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The configuration of deploying three DM-masters, three DM-workers, and monitoring component instances is as follows:
```

    web_port: 9093
    # cluster_port: 9094
    # deploy_dir: "/tidb-deploy/alertmanager-9093"
    # data_dir: "/tidb-data/alertmanager-9093"
    # log_dir: "/tidb-deploy/alertmanager-9093/log"

# if monitored is set, node_exporter and blackbox_exporter will be
# deployed with the port specified, otherwise they are not deployed
# on the server to avoid conflict with tidb clusters
#monitored:
#  node_exporter_port: 9100
#  blackbox_exporter_port: 9115
```

> **Note:**
>
> 1. It is not recommend running too many workers on one host, each worker is recommended to be allocated at least 1 core cpu and 2 GiB memory.
>
> 2. The worker will be bound with an upstream database, when DM performs a full replication task, the worker exporting the full amount of data locally first, and then importing it into the downstream database. Therefore, the worker's host needs sufficient storage space (The storage path is specified later when creating the task)

Now, you can start deploying the dm cluster.

```shell
tiup dm deploy ${name} ${version} ./topology.yaml -u ${ssh_user} [-p] [-i /home/root/.ssh/gcp_rsa]
```

The parameters used in this step is as follows.

|Parameter|Description|
|-|-|

> |`${name}` | The name of dm cluster,eg: dm-test|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`${name}` | The name of dm cluster, eg: dm-test |
```

> |`${version}` | The version of the DM cluster. You can see other supported versions by running tiup list dm-master.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`${version}` | The version of the DM cluster. You can see all supported versions by running `tiup list dm-master`.
```

|`./topology.yaml`| Path of topology config file.|
|`-u` or `--user`|Log in to the target machine through the root key to complete the cluster deployment, or you can use other users with ssh and sudo privileges to complete the deployment.|

> |`-p` or `--password`|Password of target hosts. If specified, password authentication will be used|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`-p` or `--password`|Password of the user to login target hosts. If specified, password authentication will be used|
```

|`-i` or `--identity_file`|The path of the SSH identity file. If specified, public key authentication will be used. (default "/root/.ssh/id_rsa")|

At the end of the output log, you will see `Deployed cluster dm-test successfully`. This indicates that the deployment is successful.

TiUP supports managing multiple DM clusters. The command below outputs information of all the clusters currently managed by TiUP, including the name, deployment user, version, and secret key information:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup dm list
```

```bash
Name  User  Version  Path                                  PrivateKey
----  ----  -------  ----                                  ----------
dm-test  tidb  v2.0.3  /root/.tiup/storage/dm/clusters/dm-test  /root/.tiup/storage/dm/clusters/dm-test/ssh/id_rsa
```

You can start dm cluster with the following command

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup dm start dm-test
```

> If the output log includes Started cluster `dm-test` successfully, the start is successful. Alternatively, you can also verify the running status by following command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the output log includes Started cluster `dm-test` successfully, the start is successful. Additionally, you can also verify the running status by following command.
```

---

> title: Quick install guide of TiDB data migration tools

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Install TiDB data migration tools
```

summary: Learn how to install TiDB data migration tools.
---

> # Migrate from Aurora snapshot to TiDB

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Migrate from Aurora snapshots to TiDB
```

> # Migrate from Aurora snapshots to TiDB

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Install TiDB data migration tools

```

> This document introduces how to install data migration related tools quickly.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This document introduces how to install data migration tools quickly.
```

> ## Complete the following tasks before start

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites
```

- [Hardware and software requirements](/hardware-and-software-requirements.md)
- [Environment and system configuration check](/check-before-deployment.md)

## Install TiUP

> Starting with TiDB 4.0, TiUP, as the package manager, helps you easily manage different cluster components in the TiDB ecosystem. Now you can run any component with only a single TiUP command line.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since TiDB 4.0, TiUP serves as the package manager to help you easily manage different cluster components in the TiDB ecosystem. Now you can manage any components with only one single TiUP command line.
```

> Starting with TiDB 4.0, TiUP, as the package manager, makes it far easier to manage different cluster components in the TiDB ecosystem. Now you can run any component with only a single line of TiUP commands.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Starting with TiDB 4.0, TiUP, as the package manager, helps you easily manage different cluster components in the TiDB ecosystem. Now you can run any component with only a single TiUP command line.
```

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://tiup-mirrors.pingcap.com/install.sh | sh
```

Redeclare the global environment variables:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
source ~/.bash_profile
```

> ## Install Component

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Install Components
```

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup install dumpling tidb-lightning dm dmctl
```

> **Note:**
>

> > You can install a component of a specific version by: `tiup install <component>[:version]`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> To install a component of a specific version, you can use the `tiup install <component>[:version]` command.
```

> > You can install a component of specific version by: `tiup install <component>[:version]`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> You can install a component of a specific version by: `tiup install <component>[:version]`
```

---
title: Install TiDB data migration tools

> summary: Learn how to install TiDB data migration tools.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
summary: Learn how to install TiDB data migration tools, including Data Migration, Dumpling, TiDB Lightning, and dmctl.
```

---

# Install TiDB data migration tools

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
